Feature Selection 
=================

The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 
Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals. Also the magnitude of the three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm. 

#Data sets
    1. Clean: Data set with all the values taken from each subject 
    2. Resume: Data set with the summary of the values taken from each subject and each activity. 
    
    To summarize, I used the mean of the variable measured for that subject and activity 
    
#Variables measured    
These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  

    1. Subject: ID in the experiment of the participant
    2. Activity: Activity measured
    3. Time of accelerometer                        
    4. Time of gravity accelerometer                 
    5. Time of accelerometer jerk                     
    6. Time of gyroscope                             
    7. Time of gyroscope jerk                        
    8. Frequency of accelerometer                     
    9. Frequency of accelerometer jerk               
    10. Frequency of gyroscope                        

#Statistics measured
    1. Mean: Mean value of the variable 
    2. Mean X: Mean value in the X direction of the variable
    3. Mean Y: Mean value in the Y direction of the variable
    4. Mean Y: Mean value in the Y direction of the variable

    5. Standard deviation: Standard deviation value of the variable
    6. Standard deviation X: Standard deviation value in the X direction of the variable
    7. Standard deviation Y: Standard deviation value in the Y direction of the variable
    8. Standard deviation Z: Standard deviation value in the Z direction of the variable


